add how to run high availability sequencer nodes (#2267)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/high-availability-sequencer-docs.mdx

import ImageZoom from '@site/src/components/ImageZoom';

> # How to Set Up a High Availability Sequencer for Your Arbitrum Chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to set up a high availability sequencer for your Arbitrum chain
```

:::caution

This documentation is intended for production sequencer deployments. If you want to set up a sequencer for testing or on a testnet, please refer to [How to run a testnet sequencer node].

:::

## Introduction

> The sequencer is a critical component of your Arbitrum chain and is responsible for queueing transactions submitted to the network. It serves as the transaction ordering engine, accepting transactions forwarded from full nodes, queuing them, returning feed messages to those full nodes, and sending queued transactions to batch posters for data posting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sequencer is a critical component of your Arbitrum chain and is responsible for queuing transactions submitted to the network. It serves as the transaction ordering engine, accepting transactions forwarded from full nodes, queuing them, and returning feed messages to those full nodes. It subsequently sends queued transactions to batch posters for data posting.
```

> If your sequencer goes offline, the network will be unable to process new transactions that come to child chain RPC nodes, effectively affecting the user experience. This guide provides detailed instructions for setting up a high availability (HA) sequencer architecture to minimize downtime and ensure your Arbitrum chain remains operational even if individual components fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your sequencer goes offline, the network will be unable to process new transactions arriving at the child chain's RPC nodes, which will impact user experience. This guide provides detailed instructions for setting up a high availability (HA) sequencer architecture to minimize downtime and ensure your Arbitrum chain remains operational even if individual components fail.
```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- Experience with Kubernetes and container orchestration
- Access to a Kubernetes cluster with multiple availability zones
- Understanding of Redis and cloud infrastructure
- A properly configured parent chain node or RPC node endpoint

> - Sequencer keys and appropriate permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sequencer keys and permissions
```

- Sufficient storage and compute resources

> ## High Availability Sequencer Architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## High availability sequencer architecture
```

A high availability sequencer deployment consists of seven key components:

1. **CDN/Load Balancer** - Manages traffic routing and bot detection
2. **Nitro Fullnodes** - Process read requests and forward write transactions
3. **External Relays** - Handle public feed traffic
4. **Sequencer Relays** - Combine feeds from all sequencers
5. **Sequencers** - Multiple redundant transaction queueing machines
6. **Redis** - Coordinates active sequencer selection and sequencer-related information sharing
7. **Batch Poster** - Posts transaction batches to the parent chain

> ### Architecture Diagrams

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Architecture diagrams
```

The architecture varies slightly depending on whether your full nodes use Redis to identify the active sequencer or forward transactions to a predefined endpoint.

> #### Send to Active Enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Send to active enabled
```

In this configuration, full nodes query Redis to determine the active sequencer and forward transactions directly to it:

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/ha-sequencer-sendto-active.png"
  alt="send to active enable"
  className="img-600px"
/>

> #### Send to Active Disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Send to active disabled
```

In this configuration, full nodes forward transactions to a predefined endpoint without checking which sequencer is active:

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/ha-sequencer-sendto-nonactive.png"
  alt="send to active disable"
  className="img-600px"
/>

> ## Detailed Component Setup
> 
> ### 1. Load Balancing (CDN)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detailed component setup

### 1. Load balancing (CDN)
```

> It is a strong recommendation to use a CDN for managing traffic and security concerns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend using a CDN for managing traffic and security concerns:
```

- **Recommendation**: Use Cloudflare or a similar CDN service
- **Configuration**:
  - Direct `/rpc` traffic to the Nitro full node fleet
  - Direct `/feed` traffic to public-facing relays
  - Implement rate limiting and bot detection as needed
- **Benefits**: Distributes load, improves security, and enhances availability

> ### 2. Relays Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Relays setup
```

The requirement is for two types of relays in the architecture:

> #### Sequencer Relays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Sequencer relays
```

> - Deployment should have multiple replicas
> - Configure to listen to feed outputs from all sequencers
> - All other components connect to these relays instead of directly to sequencers
> - Minimize direct load on sequencer nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment should have multiple replicas
- Configure to listen to feed outputs from all sequencers
- All other components connect to these relays instead of directly to the sequencers
- Minimize direct load on sequencer nodes
```

> #### External Relays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### External relays
```

- Connect to Sequencer Relays (not directly to sequencers)
- Handle all public feed requests
- Provide an additional layer of isolation for production sequencers

You can check [run a feed relay](/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/run-feed-relay) to see how to set up a relay node.

> ### 3. Nitro Fullnodes Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Nitro full nodes setup
```

> Deploy a set of Nitro full nodes to handle read requests and forward write transactions; please refer to [run a full node](/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy a set of Nitro full nodes to handle read requests and forward write transactions; please refer to [run a full node](/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx) for more details.
```

> #### Configuration Options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configuration options:
```

> **Standard Configuration**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Standard configuration**:
```

- Forward transactions to a round-robin Kubernetes service containing all sequencer replicas
- Configure with `--execution.forwarding-target=http://sequencer-nitro.svc:8547`

> **Send to Active Configuration (Optional)**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Send to active configuration (optional)**:
```

- Monitor Redis to identify the active Sequencer
- Enable with: `-execution.forwarder.redis-url=redis://<redis-url>:6379`
- Ensure connectivity to individual sequencer services and Redis
- Test failover scenarios before production deployment

> **Mutating-Only Endpoint (Optional)**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mutating-only endpoint (optional)**:
```

- Deploy dedicated nodes for transaction submission only
- Add this configuration to restrict endpoints to transaction submission only:

```json
{
  "execution": {
    "rpc": {
      "allow-method": ["eth_sendRawTransaction"]
    }
  }
}
```

> ### 4. Redis Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Redis setup
```

Set up a highly available Redis cluster for sequencer coordination:

- **Deployment Options**:
  - Use a managed service like AWS ElastiCache (recommended)
  - Deploy within Kubernetes using a `StatefulSet` with `PersistentVolumeClaims`
- **Requirements**:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - Minimum of three replicas across different availability zones (recommended)
  - Secured access (only accessible within the Kubernetes cluster)
  - Backups enabled

- **Configuration**:
  - Use a Redis cluster or Redis Sentinel for high-availability
  - Secure the endpoint with proper network policies
  - Monitor Redis health as part of your overall monitoring strategy

> ### 5. Sequencer Setup
> 
> #### Sequencer Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Sequencer setup

#### Sequencer deployment
```

> Deploy multiple sequencer replicas with availability zone spread:
> 
> - Use a `StatefulSet` for sequencer deployment
> - Configure individual services for each sequencer replica
> - Create a service for all sequencer replicas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy multiple sequencer replicas with an availability zone spread:

- Use a `StatefulSet` for sequencer deployment
- Configure individual services for each sequencer replica
- Create a service for all sequencer replicas
```

> #### Individual Sequencer Service Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Individual sequencer service example:
```

```yaml
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sequencer-nitro-0
spec:
  ports:
    - name: rpc
      port: 8547
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8547
    - name: ws
      port: 8548
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8548
    - name: metrics
      port: 6070
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 6070
    - name: feed
      port: 9642
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 9642
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: sequencer
    app.kubernetes.io/name: nitro
    statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: sequencer-nitro-0
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: LoadBalancer
```

> #### All Sequencers Service Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### All sequencers service example:
```

    - --node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric-fallback
    - --node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric-sign
    - --node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric.signing-key=<secure_key>
  command:
    - /usr/local/bin/nitro
  env:
    - name: POD_NAME
      valueFrom:
        fieldRef:
          apiVersion: v1
          fieldPath: metadata.name
    - name: NITRO_NODE_SEQ__COORDINATOR.MY__URL
      value: ws://$(POD_NAME).svc:8548
```

#### Volume and ConfigMap Mapping:

```yaml
volumeMounts:
  - mountPath: /home/user/data/
    name: data
  - mountPath: /config/
    name: config
  - mountPath: /home/user/seqkeystore/sequencer-wallet.key
    name: l3-sequencer-keystore
    subPath: sequencer-wallet.key
volumes:
  - configMap:
      defaultMode: 420
      name: sequencer-nitro
    name: config
  - name: l3-sequencer-keystore
    secret:
      defaultMode: 420
      secretName: l3-sequencer-keystore
volumeClaimTemplates:
  - apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    metadata:
      name: data
    spec:
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Ti
      storageClassName: gp3
      volumeMode: Filesystem
```

> ### 6. Sequencer Coordinator Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Sequencer coordinator manager
```

To manage active sequencer selection, use the built-in sequencer coordinator UI:

- Follow detailed instructions at: [Running a Sequencer Coordinator Manager](https://docs.arbitrum.io/node-running/how-tos/running-a-sequencer-coordinator-manager)
- Use this interface to switch between sequencer replicas when needed manually
- Configure permissions and access controls appropriately

> ### 7. Batchposter Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 7. Batchposter setup
```

The Batchposter component's primary function is posting transaction batches to the parent chain.

> You need to configure it to connect to the Sequencer coordinator Redis but don't set this node in the Sequencer priority list in SQM (Sequencer Coordinator Manager) to prevent it to be active sequencer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to configure it to connect to the sequencer coordinator Redis, but don't set this node in the Sequencer priority list in SQM (Sequencer Coordinator Manager) to prevent it from being an active sequencer:
```

> #### Batchposter ConfigMap Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Batchposter ConfigMap example:
```

        }
      },
      "http": {
        "addr": "0.0.0.0",
        "port": "8547",
        "vhosts": "*",
        "api": [
          "personal",
          "eth",
          "net",
          "web3",
          "txpool"
        ],
        "corsdomain": "*",
        "rpcprefix": "/rpc"
      },
      "ws": {
        "addr": "0.0.0.0",
        "port": "8548",
        "origins": "*",
        "api": [
          "personal",
          "eth",
          "net",
          "web3",
          "txpool",
          "debug",
          "arbdebug"
        ],
        "rpcprefix": "/ws"
      },
      "persistent": {
        "chain": "/home/user/data/"
      }
    }
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: batchposter-config
```

#### Batchposter Command Line Arguments:

```
--conf.env-prefix=NITRO
--conf.file=/config/config.json
--metrics
--metrics-server.addr=0.0.0.0
--node.parent-chain-reader.tx-timeout=1h
--node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric-fallback
--node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric-sign
--node.seq-coordinator.signer.symmetric.signing-key=<secure_key>
--node.batch-poster.data-poster.redis-signer.signing-key=<secure_key_2>
--node.batch-poster.data-poster.max-queued-transactions=256
```

> ## Monitoring and Maintenance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Monitoring and maintenance
```
